src/HowToOptimizeGemm/Analysis.md, before:

Kylee Budai Analysis:

Reference (MMult0)

Pseudo-Optimized Version (MMult_1x4_9)
   31.36% of the instructions in AddDot1x4, 64.77% in Ref 
   30.88% of cache misses in AddDot1x4, 66.37% in Ref
   35.51% of cache references in AddDot1x4, 63.2% in Ref
   45.31% of L1 cache load misses in AddDot1x4, 54.45% in Ref
   43.15% of L1 cache loads in AddDot1x4, 54.71% in Ref

Looking at the percent of cache misses per references, in this pseudo optimized version, 86% of cache references lead to cache misses while in the reference version, 95% of the cache loads lead to cache misses.  This is not hugely significant.  The most significant difference in these two versions is the amount of instructions.  There are about a third of the amount of instructions and therefore about a third of the number of cache misses are a result of the pseudo optimized version.  The L1 cache loads/misses show about the same thing.

Optimized Version (MMult_4x4_10)
   34.25% of the instructions in AddDot4x4, 61.80% in Ref
   22.85% of cache misses in AddDot4x4, 74.27% in Ref
   28.47% of cache references in AddDot4x4, 69.67% in Ref
   21.53% of L1 cache load misses in AddDot4x4, 78.13% in Ref
   43.48% of L1 cache loads in AddDot4x4, 53,68% in Ref

Cache misses/cache reference: 80% of cache references in optimized lead to cache miss, for reference, 92%.  This difference is significant because this version does not reduct the number of instructions much more than the psuedo-optimized version but the cache misses are significantly reduced as a percentage of cache misses.  


BLAS Function Dgemm: dgemm significantly reduces the amount of instructions (to fewer than 40%- can't tell exactly because each built in function uses a very small percentage of total instruction base) and the cache misses to less than 10%, leaving about 90% of the instructions being done in the reference version.  The cache references account for about 20% of the cache references.  Using BLAS optimises GEMM not only by reducing the number of instructions needed but also by significantly improving the use of cache.


SYMMETRIC MATRIX MULTIPLICATION:

Commit message:

Adding symmetry and making changes to makefile

src/HowToOptimizeGemm/Analysis.md, after:

Kylee Budai Analysis:

Reference (MMult0)

Pseudo-Optimized Version (MMult_1x4_9)
   31.36% of the instructions in AddDot1x4, 64.77% in Ref 
   30.88% of cache misses in AddDot1x4, 66.37% in Ref
   35.51% of cache references in AddDot1x4, 63.2% in Ref
   45.31% of L1 cache load misses in AddDot1x4, 54.45% in Ref
   43.15% of L1 cache loads in AddDot1x4, 54.71% in Ref

Looking at the percent of cache misses per references, in this pseudo optimized version, 86% of cache references lead to cache misses while in the reference version, 95% of the cache loads lead to cache misses.   The most significant difference in these two versions is the amount of instructions.  There are about a third of the amount of instructions and therefore about a third of the number of cache misses are a result of the pseudo optimized version.  The L1 cache loads/misses show about the same thing.


Optimized Version (MMult_4x4_10)
   34.25% of the instructions in AddDot4x4, 61.80% in Ref
   22.85% of cache misses in AddDot4x4, 74.27% in Ref
   28.47% of cache references in AddDot4x4, 69.67% in Ref
   21.53% of L1 cache load misses in AddDot4x4, 78.13% in Ref
   43.48% of L1 cache loads in AddDot4x4, 53,68% in Ref

Cache misses/cache reference: 80% of cache references in optimized lead to cache miss, for reference, 92%.  This difference is significant because this version does not reduce the number of instructions much more than the psuedo-optimized version but the cache misses are significantly reduced as a percentage of cache misses.  


BLAS Function Dgemm: dgemm significantly reduces the amount of instructions (to fewer than 40%- can't tell exactly because each built in function uses a very small percentage of total instruction base) and the cache misses to less than 10%, leaving about 90% of the instructions being done in the reference version.  The cache references account for about 20% of the cache references.  Using BLAS optimises GEMM not only by reducing the number of instructions needed but also by significantly improving the use of cache.


SYMMETRIC MATRIX MULTIPLICATION:
I went through a few of the implementations and I changed them to take advantage of symmetry.  I made it so A was actually a symmetric matrix so I could compare the performance of these algorithms to the ones that don't recognize the symmetry in A.  

MMult_1x4_9(the reference is the given file, the optimized is the one I adjusted to account for symmetry).  
    The number of instructions, unsurprizingly, did not change much between implementations.  What did change however was the L1 data cache misses.  The reference version accounted for 65% of the misses whereas my optimized version accounted for only about 35%, a significant improvement seeing as the number of data cache loads was changed by only a few percent (about 5%).  The reason behind this being that half of the time, my code used the column-major storage to it's advantage whereas the column major storage is not used well in the non-symmetric version.


cblas_dgemm VS cblas_dsymm
Running both BLAS methods against each other, the difference in using the fact that A is symmetric has no real benefit over performing the multiplication outright (it may just be more difficult to optimize).  dgemm accounts for 53% of the instructions, 50% of the L1 d-cache loads, and about 85% of the cache misses.  This difference shows that having a symmetric matrix significantly reduces the overhead that is a result of cache misses.  I also ran this comparison where dsymm used the Upper triangular instead of the lower and there was no significant difference.  In the images file there is a plot of dsymm running with dgemm as a reference.  

A reason why taking advantage of the symmetry does not yield real advantages is because of the way that matrix A is stored.  It is still stored in its entirety, column major.  The biggest advantage to knowing that a matrix is symmetric would be that it would require a lot less storage and could be stored in a way that reduced the number of cache misses significantly.
